source,target,type,adaptationMechanism,strength,frequency,dependency,method,relationship,description
camel,heat,adapted_to,Physiological temperature regulation,extreme,,,,,
fennec_fox,heat,adapted_to,Large ears for heat dissipation,strong,,,,,
darkling_beetle,aridity,adapted_to,Water harvesting from air,extreme,,,,,
sidewinder,sand_dunes,adapted_to,Specialized locomotion,extreme,,,,,
desert_tortoise,aridity,adapted_to,Water storage in bladder,extreme,,,,,
kangaroo_rat,aridity,adapted_to,Metabolic water production,extreme,,,,,
gila_monster,heat,adapted_to,Fat storage and seasonal activity,strong,,,,,
cactus_wren,heat,adapted_to,Behavioral thermoregulation,strong,,,,,
javelina,aridity,adapted_to,Consumption of water-rich cacti,moderate,,,,,
yucca_moth,aridity,adapted_to,Short lifecycle synchronized with yucca flowering,extreme,,,,,
coyote,aridity,adapted_to,Obtaining moisture from prey,strong,,,,,
saguaro,heat,adapted_to,Pleated structure for expansion,extreme,,,,,
barrel_cactus,aridity,adapted_to,Water storage tissue,extreme,,,,,
mesquite,aridity,adapted_to,Deep root system,extreme,,,,,
creosote_bush,aridity,adapted_to,Resinous coating on leaves,extreme,,,,,
ocotillo,temperature_variation,adapted_to,Rapid leaf production after rain,extreme,,,,,
brittlebush,heat,adapted_to,Reflective leaf surfaces,strong,,,,,
desert_ironwood,aridity,adapted_to,Dense wood tissue,extreme,,,,,
agave,aridity,adapted_to,CAM photosynthesis,extreme,,,,,
joshua_tree,sandy_soil,grows_in,,,permanent,high,,,
sidewinder,dune_field,lives_in,,,permanent,high,,,
desert_tortoise,rocky_slope,lives_in,,,seasonal,medium,,,
cactus_wren,wash,lives_in,,,permanent,medium,,,
gila_monster,rocky_slope,lives_in,,,permanent,high,,,
javelina,canyon,lives_in,,,permanent,medium,,,
kangaroo_rat,dune_field,lives_in,,,permanent,high,,,
scorpion,rocky_slope,lives_in,,,permanent,medium,,,
coyote,canyon,lives_in,,,permanent,low,,,
saguaro,rocky_slope,grows_in,,,permanent,medium,,,
mesquite,wash,grows_in,,,permanent,high,,,
desert_ironwood,wash,grows_in,,,permanent,medium,,,
brittlebush,rocky_slope,grows_in,,,permanent,medium,,,
coyote,kangaroo_rat,preys_on,,,common,,hunting,,
coyote,desert_tortoise,preys_on,,,rare,,opportunistic,,
sidewinder,kangaroo_rat,preys_on,,,common,,ambush,,
desert_monitor,scorpion,preys_on,,,occasional,,hunting,,
gila_monster,cactus_wren,preys_on,,,occasional,,raiding nests,,
roadrunner,scorpion,preys_on,,,common,,hunting,,
roadrunner,sidewinder,preys_on,,,occasional,,hunting,,
javelina,prickly_pear,consumes,,,common,,grazing,,
desert_tortoise,desert_poppy,consumes,,,seasonal,,grazing,,
kangaroo_rat,mesquite,consumes,,,common,,seed collection,,
desert_ironwood,saguaro,nurses,,strong,,,,provides shade and protection,
mesquite,desert_poppy,facilitates,,moderate,,,,improves soil conditions,
creosote_bush,other_plants,inhibits,,strong,,,,allelopathy,Creosote bushes release toxins that inhibit growth of other plants nearby
joshua_tree,yucca_moth,mutual_dependency,,extreme,,,,obligate reproductive site,
yucca_moth,joshua_tree,mutual_dependency,,extreme,,,,obligate reproductive site,
