source,target,type,weight,strength,adaptationMechanism,frequency,dependency,method,relationship,description
camel,heat,adapted_to,,extreme,Physiological temperature regulation,,,,,
fennec_fox,heat,adapted_to,,strong,Large ears for heat dissipation,,,,,
darkling_beetle,aridity,adapted_to,,extreme,Water harvesting from air,,,,,
sidewinder,sand_dunes,adapted_to,,extreme,Specialized locomotion,,,,,
desert_tortoise,aridity,adapted_to,,extreme,Water storage in bladder,,,,,
kangaroo_rat,aridity,adapted_to,,extreme,Metabolic water production,,,,,
gila_monster,heat,adapted_to,,strong,Fat storage and seasonal activity,,,,,
cactus_wren,heat,adapted_to,,strong,Behavioral thermoregulation,,,,,
javelina,aridity,adapted_to,,moderate,Consumption of water-rich cacti,,,,,
yucca_moth,aridity,adapted_to,,extreme,Short lifecycle synchronized with yucca flowering,,,,,
coyote,aridity,adapted_to,,strong,Obtaining moisture from prey,,,,,
saguaro,heat,adapted_to,,extreme,Pleated structure for expansion,,,,,
barrel_cactus,aridity,adapted_to,,extreme,Water storage tissue,,,,,
mesquite,aridity,adapted_to,,extreme,Deep root system,,,,,
creosote_bush,aridity,adapted_to,,extreme,Resinous coating on leaves,,,,,
ocotillo,temperature_variation,adapted_to,,extreme,Rapid leaf production after rain,,,,,
brittlebush,heat,adapted_to,,strong,Reflective leaf surfaces,,,,,
desert_ironwood,aridity,adapted_to,,extreme,Dense wood tissue,,,,,
agave,aridity,adapted_to,,extreme,CAM photosynthesis,,,,,
joshua_tree,sandy_soil,grows_in,,,,permanent,high,,,
sidewinder,dune_field,lives_in,,,,permanent,high,,,
desert_tortoise,rocky_slope,lives_in,,,,seasonal,medium,,,
cactus_wren,wash,lives_in,,,,permanent,medium,,,
gila_monster,rocky_slope,lives_in,,,,permanent,high,,,
javelina,canyon,lives_in,,,,permanent,medium,,,
kangaroo_rat,dune_field,lives_in,,,,permanent,high,,,
scorpion,rocky_slope,lives_in,,,,permanent,medium,,,
coyote,canyon,lives_in,,,,permanent,low,,,
saguaro,rocky_slope,grows_in,,,,permanent,medium,,,
mesquite,wash,grows_in,,,,permanent,high,,,
desert_ironwood,wash,grows_in,,,,permanent,medium,,,
brittlebush,rocky_slope,grows_in,,,,permanent,medium,,,
coyote,kangaroo_rat,preys_on,,,,common,,hunting,,
coyote,desert_tortoise,preys_on,,,,rare,,opportunistic,,
sidewinder,kangaroo_rat,preys_on,,,,common,,ambush,,
desert_monitor,scorpion,preys_on,,,,occasional,,hunting,,
gila_monster,cactus_wren,preys_on,,,,occasional,,raiding nests,,
roadrunner,scorpion,preys_on,,,,common,,hunting,,
roadrunner,sidewinder,preys_on,,,,occasional,,hunting,,
javelina,prickly_pear,consumes,,,,common,,grazing,,
desert_tortoise,desert_poppy,consumes,,,,seasonal,,grazing,,
kangaroo_rat,mesquite,consumes,,,,common,,seed collection,,
desert_ironwood,saguaro,nurses,,strong,,,,,provides shade and protection,
mesquite,desert_poppy,facilitates,,moderate,,,,,improves soil conditions,
creosote_bush,other_plants,inhibits,,strong,,,,,allelopathy,Creosote bushes release toxins that inhibit growth of other plants nearby
joshua_tree,yucca_moth,mutual_dependency,,extreme,,,,,obligate reproductive site,
yucca_moth,joshua_tree,mutual_dependency,,extreme,,,,,obligate reproductive site,
